Identification Information
    Citation
        Originator: USDA Forest Service, Geospatial Technology and Applications Center, BAER Imagery Support Program
        Publication Date: 2018-10-05
        Title: Soil Burn Severity Dataset for the COLUMBUS Fire occurring on the Umpqua National Forest
        Publication Information
            Publication Place: Salt Lake City, Utah, USA
            Publisher: USDA Forest Service
        Geospatial Data Presentation Form: raster digital data
        Online Linkage: https://fsapps.nwcg.gov/afm/baer/download.php
    Description
        Abstract: This soil burn severity dataset was derived from Landsat 8 data and field validated by a Forest Service Burned Area Emergency Response (BAER) team. It is based upon an initial Burned
        Area Reflectance Classification (BARC) dataset created by analyzing satellite imagery. A pre-fire and post-fire Landsat 8 scene were processed to develop a differenced 
        Normalized Burn Ratio (dNBR) image. The dNBR image attempts to portray the variation of burn severity within a fire and captures the combined effects of the fire to vegetation and soil
        components of the ecosytem. The preliminary BARC dataset was assessed by a Forest Service BAER team and modified, if necessary, based on field conditions. 
        Purpose: These data were created by the USDA Forest Service Geospatial Technology and Applications Center (GTAC) to support Burned Area Emergency Response (BAER) teams.    
    Supplemental Information
        Fire Name: COLUMBUS
        Agency: USDA Forest Service
        Type of assessment: Emergency
        Fire size (as mapped): 10470 acres
        Pre-Fire Imagery Date : 2017-07-30
        Post-Fire Imagery Date : 2018-09-03
        Output Dataset Projection: LUnits_meters
        Datum: D_North_American_1983
        Spheroid Name: GRS_1980
        Mapping Comments:     
    Product List
        COLUMBUS_sbs.tif = Soil burn severity (SBS) dataset in raster format
        COLUMBUS_SBS thumb.jpg = JPEG version of the SBS
        
    
    Time Period of Content
        Multiple Dates/Times
            Single Date/Time
                Calendar Date: 2017-07-30 (pre-fire image)
            Single Date/Time
                Calendar Date: 2018-09-03 (post-fire image)
        Currentness Reference: Severity data correspond to the date of the post-fire image.
    Status
        Progress: Evaluation of methods in process
        Maintenance and Update Frequency: As needed
    Spatial Domain
        Bounding Coordinates
            West Bounding Coordinate: 377921.221955
            East Bounding Coordinate: 386221.221955
            North Bounding Coordinate: 994973.351734
            South Bounding Coordinate: 984193.351734
    Keywords
        Theme
            Theme Keyword Thesaurus: none
            Theme Keyword: Wildland Fire
            Theme Keyword: Wildfire
            Theme Keyword: Burned Area Emergency Response
            Theme Keyword: BAER
            Theme Keyword: dNBR
            Theme Keyword: Fire Severity
            Theme Keyword: Burn Severity
            Theme Keyword: USDA Forest Service
        Place
            Place Keyword Thesaurus: none
            Place Keyword: OR
            Place Keyword: COLUMBUS Fire
    Access Constraints: These data are publicly available. 
    Use Constraints:  There are no restrictions on use, except for reasonable and proper acknowledgement of information sources and limitations as preliminary/draft data.
    Data Set Credit: USDA Forest Service
    Native Data Set Environment: GeoTiff
Data Quality Information
    Positional Accuracy
        Horizontal Positional Accuracy
            Horizontal Positional Accuracy Report: Landsat data are terrain corrected using ground control points and processed to an RMSE of less than 1/2 pixel.
    Lineage
        Process Step
            Process Description: These data products are derived from Landsat 8 data. Pre-fire and post-fire scenes are analyzed to create a differenced Normalized Burn Ratio (dNBR) image.
                The dNBR image portrays the variation of burn severity within the fire. The pre- and post-fire images are terrain corrected and further processed to convert top of atmosphere reflectance. 
                The Normalized Burn Ratio (NBR) is computed for the pre- and post-fire images using the following formula:
                (NIR Band - SWIR Band) / (NIR Band + SWIR Band) = NBR

                The Differenced NBR is computed to determine severity by subtracting the post-fire NBR from the pre-fire NBR:
                (PreNBR - PostNBR) = dNBR
            Original BARC thresholds:
                Unburned/Low threshold = 81.
                Low/Moderate threshold = 117
                Moderate/High threshold = 219

            Revised SBS thresholds:
                Unburned/Low threshold = 59.
                Low/Moderate threshold = 110
                Moderate/High threshold = 175
                
                General descriptions of the severity classes are below:
                Unburned / Very low: The area after the fire was indistinguishable from pre-fire conditions. This does not always indicate the area did not burn
                    (i.e. canopy may be occluding the burn signal).
                Low:      Areas of surface fire with little detected change in cover and little detected mortality of the dominant vegetation. Little to no change in the soil color, structure and condition occured.
                Moderate: This severity class is between low and high and means there is a mixture of detected effects on the dominant vegetation.
                High:     Areas where the canopy has high to complete consumption. Changes to soil structure, color and condition are significant and hydrophobicity may have occured.
Spatial Data Organization Information
    Direct Spatial Reference Method: Raster
    Raster Object Information
        Vertical Count: 1
Spatial Reference Information
    Horizontal Coordinate System Definition
        Planar
            Map Projection
                Map Projection Name: LUnits_meters
                    Map Projection Parameters
                        Standard Parallel: 43.0
                        Standard Parallel: 48.0
                        Longitude of Central Meridian: -120.0
                        Latitude of Projection Origin: 34.0
                        False Easting: 600000.0
                        False Northing: 0.0
            Planar Coordinate Information
                Planar Coordinate Encoding Method: row and column
                Coordinate Representation
                    Abscissa Resolution: 20.0
                    Ordinate Resolution: 20.0
                Planar Distance Units: Meter
        Geodetic Model
            Horizontal Datum Name: D_North_American_1983
            Ellipsoid Name: GRS_1980
            Semi-major Axis: 6378137.0
            Denominator of Flattening Ratio: 298.257222101
Distribution Information
    Resource Description: Downloadable Data
Metadata Reference Information
    Metadata Date: 2018-10-05
    Metadata Contact
        Contact Information
            Contact Organization Primary
                Contact Organization: USDA Forest Service, Geospatial Technology and Applications Center (GTAC)
                Contact Person: Justin Epting
                Contact Address
                    Address Type: mailing address
                    Address: 2222 W. 2300 S.
                    City: Salt Lake City
                    State or Province: UT
                    Postal Code: 84119
                Contact Voice Telephone: 801 975 3755 
                Contact Electronic Mail Address: baerimagery@fs.fed.us
